PyBryt GitHub Action
====================

`GitHub Actions`_ allow you to automate workflows for repositories for tasks like CI/CD. With GitHub
Actions, or indeed any CI/CD service, you can automate PyBryt to run on repositories of student
code.

PyBryt has a pre-made action that can be used in GitHub Actions workflows called 
|microsoft/pybryt-action|_. With this action, you can set up PyBryt to run automatically on
students' submissions whenever they push to their repositories.

Let's consider an example assignment with student repositories structured like:

.. code-block::

    .
    ├── refs
    │   ├── ref-1.pkl
    │   └── ref-2.pkl
    └── submission.ipynb

To automate PyBryt for the submission ``submission.ipynb``, you would add a new GitHub Actions
workflow file in ``.github/workflows``:

.. code-block::

    .
    ├── .github
    │   └── workflows
    │       └── run-pybryt.yml
    ├── refs
    │   ├── ref-1.pkl
    │   └── ref-2.pkl
    └── submission.ipynb

Inside this file, define the following action configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    name: Run PyBryt

    on:
      push:
        branches: [ main ]
      workflow_dispatch:

    jobs:
      build:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
          - name: Run PyBryt
            # TODO: update the version
            uses: microsoft/pybryt-action@main 
            with:
              submission-path: submission.ipynb
              references: |
                refs/ref-1.pkl
                refs/ref-2.pkl

This configuration tells the PyBryt action that it should execute the student implementation
``submission.ipynb`` against the references listed in the ``references`` key. (Elements of the
``references`` key can be either paths to files or URLs.) It is set up to run whenever a commit is
pushed to the ``main`` branch or when triggered manually by the user.

When this action runs, PyBryt will execute the submission specified to generate a student
implementation and then it will run that implementation against the provided references. It will
then print a report to the console containing the details of the passing and failing of the
implementation for each reference as well as any messages generated by the reference.

In some cases, you may want a record of the objects PyBryt generates, like the report and student
implementation and results objects. The PyBryt action stores these artifacts in files that can be
found by looking at the outputs of the step that runs PyBryt.

For example, to save all of these artifacts as files in a ``results`` directory, you could use a
configuration like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    name: Run PyBryt

    on:
      push:
        branches: [ main ]
      workflow_dispatch:

    jobs:
      build:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
          - name: Run PyBryt
            id: pybryt
            # TODO: update the version
            uses: microsoft/pybryt-action@main 
            with:
              submission-path: submission.ipynb
              references: |
                refs/ref-1.pkl
                refs/ref-2.pkl
        
          - name: Save, commit, and push results
            run: |
              mkdir -p results
              cp ${{ steps.pybryt.outputs.report-path }} results/report.txt
              cp ${{ steps.pybryt.outputs.results-path }} results/results.pkl
              cp ${{ steps.pybryt.outputs.student-implementation-path }} results/student-implementation.pkl
              git add results
              git commit -m "PyBryt results for ${{ github.sha }}"
              git push

The second step of the action above copies the files from the paths listed in the outputs from the
PyBryt action into files in the ``results`` directory before committing and pushing them. The two
``.pkl`` files can be unpickled with the ``dill`` library for further use.

For more information about the PyBryt action and how to use it, see its `documentation
<https://github.com/microsoft/pybryt-action>`_.


.. _GitHub Actions: https://docs.github.com/en/actions
.. |microsoft/pybryt-action| replace:: ``microsoft/pybryt-action``
.. _microsoft/pybryt-action: https://github.com/microsoft/pybryt-action
